-----------------------------------------
CODEBOOK
-----------------------------------------


1. WORKFLOWS:

Three separate workflows were used to collect covenant data based on the source document type. 
Due to the differences in how Torrens records and abstract records are structured, there is a small 
amount of variation in our methodology. The source for each feature in the associated shapefile is 
listed in the Workflow field. 

A. Zooniverse -- Abstracts
Description: Data was sourced through the project’s Zooniverse platform. This workflow captured 
additional information for the date the deed was recorded and the document’s book and page number 
that is not found in data sourced through the Torrens workflow.
 
B. Zooniverse -- Torrens
Description: Data was sourced through the project’s Zooniverse platform. This workflow did not 
capture information about the date the deed was recorded or the document’s book and page number.
This workflow did capture information of the type of restriction (reference or explicit) that is 
not found in data sourced through the Abstracts workflow.

C. Manual
Description: Data was sourced manually by the project’s research team using both Torrens and 
abstract documents. This workflow was primarily used in cases where known developers who used 
racial covenants recorded parcel sales that were recorded in handwritten documents. These documents 
could not be read via OCR and were investigated manually when practicable. These records do not 
have values for the “Rel_Score”, “Deed_ID”, or “Res_Type” fields. 



2. DATA-SPECIFIC INFORMATION FOR SHAPEFILE AND CSV 

A. Number of variables: 21
B. Number of features/rows: 24119

C. Projection Information:
	Projected Coordinate System:	NAD_1983_UTM_Zone_15N
	Projection:	Transverse_Mercator
	Linear Unit: 	Meter
	Geographic Coordinate System:	GCS_North_American_1983
	Datum: 	D_North_American_1983
	Angular Unit: 	Degree

D. Missing data codes:
	NA:  (Not applicable) The variable is not known or not applicable based on the workflow used to 		capture information for that deed 


3. VARIABLE LIST

A. Name: FID
Description: An ID field automatically generated by the editing tool
Type: Object ID

B. Name: Doc_ID
Description: Document number for the property document (usually a warranty deed) containing 
the racial covenant. A prefix of “T” indicates a Torrens deed. A prefix of “A” indicates an 
abstract deed. An “M” prefix indicates this was sourced through the Manual workflow and could 
be either an abstract or torrens deed. 
Type: String

C. Name: Deed_ID
Description: Additional index information for the source property document when available. 
The format “xxxx_yyyy” denotes the book number (“xxxx”) and page number (“yyyy”). This is 
only available for the Zooniverse -- Abstracts workflow.
Type: String

D. Name: Racial_Res
Description: Language of the racial covenant found in the source property document for 
that parcel.
Type: String
**Note: Longer descriptions are truncated in the shapefile version of the data due to field character limits.**

E. Name: Type_Res
Description: Denotes whether the racial covenant is present in its entirety in the source 
document (“Explicit”) or if the racial covenant exists in a separate document that is 
referenced in the source deed (“Reference”). This is only available for the 
Zooniverse -- Torrens workflow.  
Type: String

F. Name: Addition
Description: Addition name for the parcel containing the racial covenant. 
Type: String

G. Name: City
Description: The city in which the racially covenanted lot is located.
Type: String

H. Name: Block
Description: Block number for the parcel containing the racial covenant. For additions
that do not use the block convention, “0” is used.
Type: String

I. Name: Lot
Description: Lot number for the parcel containing the racial covenant. Sometimes covenants 
cover partial lots (such as the north half of lot X or the south 50 ft of lot Y). For these 
cases we used a lot number, keyword, direction, length, and unit format
	The lot number denotes the full parent lot 
	For partial lots that excluded some portion of the original lot, the “SUB” keyword is used. 
	For partial lots that included some portion of the original lot, no keyword is used.
	Direction denotes the part of the lot that is included or excluded.
	Length denotes the size of the lot fraction that is included or excluded.
	Unit is in feet unless otherwise noted.
Examples: 
“The north 30 feet of lot 1” would be 1 N30FT 
“All of lot 5 except for the western 10 ft” would be 5 SUBW10FT
	Type: String

J. Name: Grantor
Description: The listed seller of the covenanted parcel.
Type: String

K. Name: Grantee
Description: The listed purchaser of the covenanted parcel.
Type: String

L. Name: Date_Deed
Description: The date the deed was recorded.This is not available for parcels
sourced through the Zooniverse -- Torrens workflow.
Type: String

M. Name: Date_Ex
Description: The date the deed was executed. Available for all parcels.
Type: Date

N. Name:Ex_Year
Description: The year the deed was executed. Derived from the “Date_Ex” Field. 
Type: Long

O. Name: Join_ID_1
Description: Concatenation of the “Addition”, “Block”, and “Lot” fields.
Type: String

P. Name: Workflow
Description: Workflow used to create data for that feature. 
Type: String

Q. Name: Rel_Score
Description: Weighted Cohenís kappa score for the highest ranked volunteer who 
transcribed this deed on Zooniverse. A higher ranking indicates a more reliable record. 
For features created with the Manual workflow, this value is 0. 
Type: Double

R. Name: X
Description: X coordinate value of the centroid for that feature. 
Projection is NAD_1983_UTM_Zone_15N.
Type: Double

S. Name: Y
Description: Y coordinate value of the centroid for that feature. 
Projection is NAD_1983_UTM_Zone_15N.
Type: Double

T. Name: Address
Description: Best match for the current address value for the parcel. This was calculated 
via spatial join with a contemporary address point layer sourced through the Hennepin County 
GIS Open Data Portal. 
Type: String

U. Name: Distance
Description: Distance of the current address point from the closest parcel polygonal boundary. 
A value of “0” indicates the current address point falls within the parcel boundary. 
Unit is in meters.
Type: Double



4. SHARING/ACCESS INFORMATION

A. Licenses/restrictions placed on the data: CC0 1.0 Universal Public Domain Dedication (CC0) 
(https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/)

B. Recommended citation for the data:
Ehrman-Solberg, Kevin; Petersen, Penny; Mills, Marguerite; Delegard, Kirsten; Mattke, Ryan. (2020). Racial Covenants in Hennepin County. Retrieved from the Data Repository for the University of Minnesota, https://doi.org/10.13020/a88t-yb14